# Campaign Directory

This directory contains files that represent the current state of campaigns. Each campaign is in its own subdirectory.

## Structure

- **./campaign/(campaign-id)/** - contains files that represent current state of a campaign.

## Files in a Campaign Directory

- **campaign.json** - identifies the module (and indirectly the rule set) used for the campaign and the player characters that are participating in the campaign.

- **campaign-journal.md** - generated by DM-This to record the history and current status of the campaign.

- **character-stats-(character-name).md** - maintained for each player and non-player character. Contains the character's current status, inventory, and backstory.

- **character-journal-(character-name).md** - maintained for each player and non-player character. Contains a history of the character's actions during the campaign and a description of their current goals or intent.

- **character-token-(character-name).png** - used to represent the player on a battle map.

- **character-portrait-(character-name).png** - used to represent the player elsewhere in the UI.


## campaign.json

This file contains a JSON format object with the following properties:

- **module** - name of the content/module subdirectory used for this campaign
- **rules** - name of the content/rules subdirectory used for this campaign
- **characters** - array of character objects, which have the following properties:
  - **name** - the character's name (identifies the character related files described above)
